Added Releasenotes 2.0.0 (#4795)
owncloud/docs: modules/ROOT/pages/ocis_release_notes.adoc

== Infinite Scale 2.0.0

Infinite Scale 2.0.0 is the first stable release, ready for production scenarios.

=== What is ownCloud?
ownCloud is an open source server application that allows you to access your files from anywhere in a secure way. 
The files are stored on a server running ownCloud. You can access your files via the browser or sync them to your desktop or mobile device like you might know it from oneDrive, Dropbox or others. The difference with ownCloud is, that you stay in controll of your data as you can install ownCloud on your own server.

=== What is ownCloud Infinite Scale?
ownCloud Infinite Scale is the latest generation of the ownCloud server application.
With its modern architecture, Infinite Scale provides all deployment models for cloud infrastructure deployments and optimized scaling setups for the best output for the invested energy.

Please find the full list of changes here: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis/releases/tag/v2.0.0

Amongst many other features, the most notable benefits of ownCloud Infinite Scale are:

==== Spaces
Spaces are special folders made for teamwork. 

> Members of a Space enjoy the service of the Space Manager, who takes care of enough quota and the right members of a Space. Thus a Space is the ideal place where school classes, business projects or working groups take place. Spaces don't "belong" to individual people, but to the role of the Space Manager. By that, ex. school classes can easily be handed over to the next teacher or organisations can transfer project resposibilities if an employee leaves the organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members of a Space enjoy the service of the Space Manager, who takes care of enough quota and the right members of a Space. Thus a Space is the ideal place where school classes, business projects or working groups take place. Spaces don't "belong" to individual people, but to the role of the Space Manager. By that, e.g. school classes can easily be handed over to the next teacher or organisations can transfer project responsibilities if an employee leaves the organisation.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Members of a Space enjoy the service of the Space Manager, who takes care of enough quota and the right members of a Space. Thus a Space is the ideal place where school classes, business projects or working groups take place. Spaces don't "belong" to individual people, but to the role of the Space Manager. For example, school classes can easily be handed over to the next teacher or organisations can transfer project responsibilities if an employee leaves the organisation.
```

Maybe simpler to use the ordinary words "For example" rather than trying to use "By that" "e.g." etc.

> Usually Space Managers are for example project leaders or teachers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usually Space Managers are, for example, project leaders or teachers. 
```

> All in all, Spaces make life easier for admins by giving Space Managers the ability to self-service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All in all, Spaces make life easier for admins by giving Space Managers the ability of self-service.
```

Reviewer 2: I think that "to self-service" reads OK here.

==== ownCloud Web

> The new design of ownCloud Web comes with a brand new look. But our actual goal is to make owncloud accessible to all people from children to experts. Technically ownCloud Web is build with VueJS as dedicated client, communicating via well-formed APIs with the Infinite Scale server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new design of ownCloud Web comes with a brand new look. But our actual goal is to make owncloud accessible to all people from children to experts. Technically ownCloud Web is built with VueJS as dedicated client, communicating via well-formed APIs with the Infinite Scale server, just like all the other ownCloud clients.
```

> Customizsation: ownCloud Web can get customized according to your corporate identity via config values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customization: ownCloud Web can get customized according to your corporate identity via config values.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customization: ownCloud Web can be customized according to your corporate identity via config values.
```

> Please find the full list of changes here: https://github.com/owncloud/web/releases/tag/v6.0.0

Reviewer: The beta phase had web releases 5.5.0, 5.6.0, 5.6.1, 5.7.0 and 6.0.0. What now, add all release links? Or only the most recent one?

==== Collaborative Editing

> Editing with Microsoft Online Office 365,  Collabora Office and OnlyOffice 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Editing with Microsoft Online Office 365, Collabora Office and OnlyOffice 
```

> Infinite Scale comes with a completely ramped up WOPI protocol server that reliably empowers collaborative office document editing with multi users. It supports Microsoft Online Office 365,  Collabora Office and OnlyOffice out of the box, and is ready to support more collaborative editors in the near future. With the focus of seamless collaboration, files are locked when opened in an online editor to visualize that to other users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale comes with a completely ramped up WOPI protocol server that reliably empowers collaborative office document editing with multi users. It supports Microsoft Online Office 365, Collabora Office and OnlyOffice out of the box, and is ready to support more collaborative editors in the near future. With the focus of seamless collaboration, files are locked when opened in an online editor to visualize that to other users.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale comes with a completely ramped up WOPI protocol server that reliably empowers collaborative office document editing with multiple users. It supports Microsoft Online Office 365, Collabora Office and OnlyOffice out of the box, and is ready to support more collaborative editors in the near future. With the focus of seamless collaboration, files are locked when opened in an online editor to visualize that to other users.
```

==== Links

> In Infinite Scale we dramatically simplified sharing by links. First of all: You can get a link within a single click in ownCloud Web. Second: You can share one and the same link with internal and external people at once and if you change your mind, you can restict access for example only to internal people of your organisation. This feature was known as "private link" in ownCloud 10 and is still available, but via the "internal" selection of a link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Infinite Scale we drastically simplified sharing by links. First of all: You can get a link within a single click in ownCloud Web. Second: You can share one and the same link with internal and external people at once and if you change your mind, you can restrict access for example only to internal people of your organisation. This feature was known as "private link" in ownCloud 10 and is still available, but via the "internal" selection of a link.
```

==== Cloud Native Deployments

> Infinite Scale is a platform built of independent microservices that communicate over the highly efficient GRPC  protocol internally and provide an HTTP API externally. That gives the flexibility for easy extension, integration and deployment of the entire platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale is a platform built of independent microservices that communicate over the highly efficient GRPC  protocol internally and provide HTTP APIs externally. That gives the flexibility for easy extension, integration and deployment of the entire platform.
```

> For the sake of efficiency, Infinite Scale reduces dependencies consequently and works without a traditional database in the core - that saves administrational efforts, hardware resources and energy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the sake of efficiency, Infinite Scale reduces dependencies and works without a traditional database in the core - that saves administration efforts, hardware resources and energy.
```

> One of the biggest benefits of Infinite Scale is the variety of deployment models that make the rollout of the platform really easy and independent of the underlying  infrastructure as far as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the biggest benefits of Infinite Scale is the variety of deployment models that make the rollout of the platform really easy and independent of the underlying infrastructure as much as possible.
```

> Infinite Scale is delivered as a so called "single binary" - which is a self contained, complete and ready to start compilation of all microservices that are needed to start Infinite Scale really simple. Another featured deployment method are docker images and docker-compose files. For setups with scaling requirements all  Infinite Scale microservices can be deployed and scaled separately on cloud infra like Kubernetes.

Reviewer: I thought we wanted to advertise the dockerized setup as our recommended default.

> Infinite Scale is delivered as a so called "single binary" - which is a self contained, complete and ready to start compilation of all microservices that are needed to start Infinite Scale really simple. Another featured deployment method are docker images and docker-compose files. For setups with scaling requirements all  Infinite Scale microservices can be deployed and scaled separately on cloud infra like Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale is delivered as a so called "single binary" - which is a self contained, complete and ready to start compilation of all microservices that are needed to start Infinite Scale really simple. Another featured deployment method are docker images and docker-compose files. For setups with scaling requirements all Infinite Scale microservices can be deployed and scaled separately on cloud infra like Kubernetes.
```

Reviewer: Kubernetes is not cloud infrastructure, but a container orchestration system (which then spawns your cloud infrastructure). I'd rather say `[...] and scaled separately with orchestration systems like Kubernetes`

> Infinite Scale is delivered as a so called "single binary" - which is a self contained, complete and ready to start compilation of all microservices that are needed to start Infinite Scale really simple. Another featured deployment method are docker images and docker-compose files. For setups with scaling requirements all  Infinite Scale microservices can be deployed and scaled separately on cloud infra like Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infinite Scale can be delivered as a so called "single binary" - which is a self contained, complete and ready to start compilation of all microservices that are needed to start Infinite Scale really simply. Other featured deployment methods are docker images and docker-compose files. For setups with scaling requirements all Infinite Scale microservices can be deployed and scaled separately on cloud infrastructure like Kubernetes.
```

With that Infinite Scale provides all deployment models for modern cloud infrastructure deployments and optimized scaling setups for the best output for the invested energy. 

==== ownCloud Desktop Client 3.0

> Along with the release of the Infinite Scale server component also the new major version 3.0 of the ownCloud desktop client will be released. Version 3.0 is fully compatible to ownCloud Infinite Scale as well as the recent ownCloud 10 Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Along with the release of the Infinite Scale server component also the new major version 3.0 of the ownCloud desktop client will be released. Version 3.0 is fully compatible with ownCloud Infinite Scale as well as the recent ownCloud 10 Server.
```

> For Infinite Scale, the new desktop sync client supports  the Infinite Scale spaces concept for modern collaboration. Now users can select very specifically which spaces they are interested in individually and sync these to the client. That is supported by a UI from which the spaces can be selected comfortably, which result in individual and efficient sync connections for each space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Infinite Scale, the new desktop sync client supports the Infinite Scale spaces concept for modern collaboration. Now users can select specifically which spaces they are interested in and sync these to their desktops. That is supported by a UI from which the spaces can be selected comfortably, which result in individual and efficient sync connections for each space.
```

Reviewer: Too many adjectives in these few sentences 🙈

> The new desktop client also comes with a great amount of performance improvements, with improvements of Windows VFS, improved log file generation and a huge amount of other bugfixes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new desktop client also comes with many performance improvements, with improvements for Windows VFS, improved log file generation and a large number of other bugfixes. 
```

==== iOS Client Version 12

> The new iOS client version 12 also comes with full support for Infinite Scale spaces and allows comfortable access to the collaboration spaces for the user in all their accounts. The list of spaces available is dynamically retrieved from the Infinite Scale server and listed along with the cover image and description. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new iOS client version 12 also comes with full support for Infinite Scale spaces and allows users comfortable access to the collaboration spaces in all their accounts. The list of spaces available is dynamically retrieved from the Infinite Scale server and listed along with the cover image and description. 
```

> The new iOS client version 12 also comes with full support for Infinite Scale spaces and allows comfortable access  to the collaboration spaces for the user in all their accounts. The list  of spaces available is dynamically retrieved from the Infinite Scale server and listed along with the attractive image and description. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new iOS client version 12 also comes with full support for Infinite Scale spaces and allows comfortable access to the collaboration spaces for the user in all their accounts. The list  of spaces available is dynamically retrieved from the Infinite Scale server and listed along with the cover image and description. 
```

> Once again the iOS is examplifying in the how efficient data management works on the mobile platform with Infinite Scale.

Reviewer: I don't get the gist of this sentence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The iOS client is an example of how efficient data management works on the mobile platform with Infinite Scale.
```

==== Notes on native client support

> The latest Infinite Scale features are also supported in the latest pre-release versions of the ownCloud desktop and iOS apps. We are especially interested in feedback about the new Spaces feature and the new upload protocol.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The latest Infinite Scale features are also supported in the latest pre-release versions of the ownCloud desktop and iOS apps. We are especially interested in feedback about the new spaces feature and the new upload protocol.
```

|                              | Archive download for multiple files and folders                             | Ability for users to download multiple files and folders as archives                                                                                
|                              |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
| Platform                     |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
|                              | User settings                                                               | Framework for users to define their settings like web UI language                                                                                   

> |                              | Notifications                                                               | Framework to inform users about events in the platform; Mail notification for the event “Share received”                                            

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                              | Notifications                                                               | Framework to inform users about events in the platform; email notification for the event “Share received”                                            
```

|                              |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
| API & Integration            |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
|                              | WebDAV                                                                      | API for file operations; API endpoints known from ownCloud 10                                                                                       
|                              | OCS                                                                         | Open Collaboration Services, ownCloud-specific API endpoints known from ownCloud 10                                                                 

> |                              | LibreGraph                                                                  | Open implementation of the MS Graph API, currently used for the management of Spaces                                                                

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                              | LibreGraph                                                                  | Open implementation of the MS Graph API, currently used for the management of spaces                                                                
```

|                              |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
| Administration & Operations  |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     

> |                              | Technical service metrics                                                   | Load, memory usage, etc. per oCIS service                                                                                                           

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                              | Technical service metrics                                                   | Load, memory usage, etc. per Infinite Scale service                                                                                                           
```

|                              | Logging                                                                     | Technical log for operations and debugging                                                                                                          
|                              | Auditing                                                                    | Ability to log all operations conducted by users for compliance and traceability                                                                    
|                              |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     
| Deployment                   |                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                     

> |                              | Single binary                                                               | The most simple way to deploy Infinite Scale for testing purposes                                                                                   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|                              | Single binary                                                               | The simplest way to deploy Infinite Scale for testing purposes                                                                                   
```
